--2023-08-20 16:03:36--  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Iqmaa/PIZE/main/ABE_ABE206.txt
Resolving raw.githubusercontent.com (raw.githubusercontent.com)... 185.199.108.133, 185.199.109.133, 185.199.110.133, ...
Connecting to raw.githubusercontent.com (raw.githubusercontent.com)|185.199.108.133|:443... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 21253 (21K) [text/plain]
Saving to: ‘ABE_ABE206.txt.8’

ABE_ABE206.txt.8    100%[===================>]  20.75K  --.-KB/s    in 0s      

2023-08-20 16:03:36 (45.2 MB/s) - ‘ABE_ABE206.txt.8’ saved [21253/21253]

note

agricultural and biosystems engineering discipline
c.j. ejieji and m.o. sunmonu
course synopsis
agricultural and biosystems engineering
introduction to agricultural and biosystems engineering profession; definition of
agricultural engineering. specializations/ options in agricultural engineering,
use of various implements and equipment in agricultural engineering for various
operations/processes .prospects and job opportunities in agricultural and
biosystems engineering as a profession;. relevant regulatory bodies and societies
in agricultural and biosystems engineering. the role of agricultural engineers in
advancement of humanity.
1.0 introduction to agricutural and biosystems
engineering discipline
1.1 definition
engineering – this is the profession in which knowledge of the
mathematical, physical and biological sciences gained by study experience
and practice is applied in the efficient use of materials and forces of nature
for the benefit of man and the environment.
agriculture – encompasses the art, science and industry of managing the
growth of plants and animals for the benefit of man. it includes the
production of crops and rearing of livestock including fishes; their
processing to varied degrees and products; and marketing of their end
products.
agricultural engineering – the application of engineering and
technology and the physical biological sciences in agricultural production.
it requires the application of knowledge from other branches of
engineering to the extent that such knowledge may be used in solving
engineering problems of agriculture in all ramifications and in rural living.
the principal objective of agricultural engineering is to provide
appropriate modern equipment, technology and conducive environment
2
for agricultural production, processing and storage.this ensures improved
productivity, profitability and sustainability of the enterprise. through
agricultural engineering, the following are achieved:
(a) reduction in the hazards of farming operations
(b) reduction of drudgery in agricultural productions
(c) moderation of seasonality of agricultural produce
availability by development of systems that protect
production from vagaries of weather.
(d) continuous development and improvement of equipment
and technologies for production, processing and storage
(e) enhancement of quality of life and financial security for
farming families and enterprises.
(f) national self-sufficiency in food supply and raw materials
for agro-based industries.
(g) sustainability of the environment for agricultural
production systems
a good agricultural engineer must be knowledgeable to an appropriate level, in
most aspects of engineering disciplines and have interest in working in rural,
semi-urban and peri-urban settings.
1.2 specialization/ options in agricultural and
biosystems engineering
agricultural engineering profession worldwide focuses its attention on six ( 6)
main areas, namely:
1.2.1 aquacultural engineering
aquaculture engineering is the branch of agricultural engineering that studies
cultured aquatic species and the production systems used in their culture. study,
research and development in this area ranges from low intensity man-made pond
systems to highly intensive recirculation systems involving natural lakes. species
cultured in these systems could range from warm to cold water fish and from
fresh to sea water .this is an important aspect of agriculture in fishery. in modern
day fishery, either in ponds, rivers, or the oceans, a variety of machines are used
for raising, catching and processing fish. aquacultural engineering delas with the
structures and machines required for various fishery operations.
3
1.2.2 processing and storage engineering
agricultural processing and storage is another branch of agricultural engineering.
in this course, it will be considered in two categories, namely: agricultural
processing and storage of agricultural products. agricultural processing can
further be divided into crop processing and food processing. crop processing is
any procedure or treatment that prepares farm products for utilization or
preservation. food processing, however, is the process of physically or
chemically converting the crops into a form that could easily be cooked or eaten.
stoarge can be defined as the art and science of keeping of crops in good
condition in a safe place until usage time or consumption time.
1.2.3 power and machinery engineering
this branch of agricultural engineering deals with the area of farm
mechanization. farm mechanization is defined as the application of engineering
principles and technology in agricultural production, processing and storage.
agricultural mechanization is a wider term used when these activities extend
beyond the boundaries of the farm unit. farm mechanization is not only
tractorization but a process of improving farming operations and farm structures.
the major role of power units in the farm is to operate farm equipment for land
clearing and development, cultivation, harvesting, processing, handling,
transporting, loading, unloading, pumping and any other farm operations. the use
of farm machinery in nigerian agriculture is gaining popularity because of the
increasing awareness to large- scale farming.
1.2.4 structures and environment engineering
this branch of agricultural engineering deals with the planning, design and
construction of farmstead and controlled environments for production, storage and
processing. farmstead structures include animal housing units, farm dwellings
and produce structures. examples of closed controlled-environment systems are
silos, rhumbus and green houses.
1.2.5 soil and water engineering
soil and water engineering is that branch of agricultural engineering where
engineering principles are applied in solving problems associated with managing
soil and water resources. the aim of soil conservation is to protect the soil from
degradation which may result from the effect of water, wind and improper land
use practices soil and water conservation may involve modified tillage and crop
management practices . it could include mulching using artificial and natural
materials, contouring and terracing. conservation of soil water may also involve
engineered systems for improving soil profile water storage.
4
drainage is an aspect of soil and water engineering dealing with the removal of
excess water from surface and subsurface of the field. irrigation is also an aspect
of soil and water engineering dealing with the application of water to the field so
that crop production is not hampered by water stress. it is required when
precipitation is either not available or is insufficient to meet crop water
requirement.
water conveyance systems may also consist of pipelines and canals. field water
application systems vary in levels of sophistication. they include wild flooding,
engineered surface and overhead application system.
1.3 use of various implements and equipment in
agricultural engineering for various operations
the following are some of the implements and equipment used for various
operations in agricultural engineering:
s/no. operation implements/ equipment
1. seed bed or root bed preparation primary tillage implements
like disc plough
2. planting, fertilizer application planter, fertilizer applicator
3. spraying, harvesting and threshing sprayer, combine harvester,
thresher
4. size reduction hammer mill, crushers, dryers
5. livestock production and incubators, hatchers, milk
processing machineries processing machines.
6. adding energy to water pumps
movement in pipes
7 rainfall measurement rain gauges
8. water supply and water pumps, flow control
irrigation valves and devices, sprinkler
heads
9. crop storage corn cribs, rhombus, silos,
fans, conveyors. electric
motor, refrigerators, silos
10. bush clearing and hoes and cutlasses
land preparation
11. power production for tillage, planting, agricultural tractor.
weeding, harvesting, processing and
transportation
12 drying operations solar and mechanical dryers
1.4 prospects and job opportunities in agricultural
and biosystems engineering
the prospects of agricultural engineer upon completion of studies are very wide.
the broad agricultural engineering curriculum makes an agricultural engineers
a “ jack of all trades and almost a master of all”. so employment opportunities
in agricultural engineering cut across many areas. such areas are stated below.
1.4.1 human resources development
to keep the agricultural engineering profession alive, a younger generation of
agricultural engineers must be trained to replace the old ones. these objectives
can be achieved by establishing educational and research institutions such as
universities, polytechnics, colleges of agriculture and education, research
institutes; and by reruiting the already trained and experienced agricultural
engineers and other relevant professionals.
1.4.2 private firms
an agricultural engineer can work in private establishments dealing with plant
leasing or hiring service, consultancy services and sales and services of farm
machinery.
1.4.3 industries
examples of industries that employ the services of agricultural engineers are:
(i) agro- industrial set up such as sugar company
(ii) paper production factories
(iii) oil palm production companies
(iv) vegetable oil production companies
(v) farm equipment manufacturing industries ( design, supervision
and fabrication of various farm equipment
(vi) feed processing industries ( agricultural engineers advice on
purchase, installation and maintenance of agro-processing
equipment)
1.4.4 private farm establishments
agricultural engineers are useful in the development of machinery maintenance
procedure for private crop production farms. they can also serve in the
management team of the establishment.
1.4.5 financial institution
the agricultural engineer is, in most cases, an inventory officers or investment
officers in agricultural credit and loan section in institution such as banks and
insurance firms.
10
1.4.6 field practice
an agricultural engineer may be deployed to the field to investigate the problems
confronting the farmers, analyze such findings, in collaboration with other
engineers and non-engineers find solutions to such problems and train farmers on
how such solutions can be implemented.
1.4.7 government agencies dealing with agricultural production
such agencies are ministries of agriculture, river basin development
authorities, agricultural development cooperation, agricultural mechanization
development, boards or cooperation or company, world bank assisted
agricultural development programme.
1.4.8 self employment
an agricultural engineer can set up a private professional practice such as
workshops that can take care of the maintenance and development of farm
machinery and processing equipment.
1.4.9 miscellaneous
an agricultural engineer is very versatile because of his broad background. his
academic training makes him fit for some civil and mechanical jobs. he can be an
environmental engineer, waste management engineer, quality control engineer
and project engineer. he can pursue higher degrees in these other engineering
branches and he can be easily trained to face series of challenges in these
disciplines.
1.5 relevant professional bodies in agricultural and
biosystems engineering
a professional regulatory body is a body established by a decree or an act of the
legislative arm of government and its primary function is to regulate the training
of members of the profession and the professional practice. such regulatory body
for the agricultural engineering and other engineering professions in nigeria is
the council for the regulation of engineering in nigeria (coren). a practicing
agricultural engineer must be registered by the council for the regulation of
engineering in nigeria (coren).a professional society is an association formed
by members of the profession with the primary objectives of providing a forum
where members of the profession can interact to share ideas. such professional
societies are nigerian society of engineers (nse), nigerian institution of
agricultural engineers (niae), west african society of agricultural engineers
(wasae) and american society of agricultural and biological engineers (
asabe). the nigerian society of engineers is the umbrella association for all
11
engineering disciplines in nigeria and it provides a bigger forum where, apart
from interacting with themselves, agricultural engineers can interact with other
engineering professionals.
1.6 the roles of agricultural engineers in
advancement of humanity
agricultural engineers can contribute to the development of our nation through
agricultural development in the following ways:
(i) development and production of appropriate agricultural machinery
(ii) development and production of storage and processing facilities
for the farm produce
(iii) development of appropriate irrigation and water conservation
methods that can be readily practiced by our farmers
(iv) formulation of, and research into, mechanization system that will
be relevant to our vegetation and soil types
(v) standardization of equipment being imported into the country
(vi) conduction of research into human factors in the use of machinery
(vii) formulation of appropriate standard agricultural mechanization
management systems that will be peculiar to nigeria though may
be adaptable to other countries in the areas of maintenance
(viii) research into fundamental problems affecting operations of the
machines e.g soil dynamics
(ix) investigation into material properties of crops to determine the
appropriate storage facilities to be provided.
(x) crop production
(xi) animal and fish production
(xii) management, distribution and transportation

questions

1. ………………..this is the profession in which knowledge of the mathematical, physical and
biological sciences gained by study experience and practice is applied in the efficient use of
materials and forces of nature for the benefit of man and the environment.
2. ……………….encompasses the art, science and industry of managing the growth of plants and
animals for the benefit of man. it includes the production of crops and rearing of livestock
including fishes; their processing to varied degrees and products; and marketing of their end
products.
3. ……………….. the application of engineering and technology and the physical biological sciences
in agricultural production. it requires the application of knowledge from other branches of
engineering to the extent that such knowledge may be used in solving engineering problems of
agriculture in all ramifications and in rural living.
4. agricultural engineering profession worldwide focuses its attention on …. main areas
5. ……………….. is the branch of agricultural engineering that studies cultured aquatic species and
the production systems used in their culture.
6. agricultural processing and storage of agricultural products are categories of ………………..
7. agricultural processing can be divided into ………………..
8. ……………… any procedure or treatment that prepares farm products for utilization or
preservation.
9. ……………… is the process of physically or chemically converting the crops into a form that could
easily be cooked or eaten.
10. ………………. can be defined as the art and science of keeping of crops in good condition in a safe
place until usage time or consumption time.
11. ……………… this branch of agricultural engineering deals with the planning, design and
construction of farmstead and controlled environments for production, storage and processing.
12. ……………… is that branch of agricultural engineering where engineering principles are applied in
solving problems associated with managing soil and water resources.
13. ……………… is an aspect of soil and water engineering dealing with the removal of excess water
from surface and subsurface of the field.
14. …………….. is also an aspect of soil and water engineering dealing with the application of water
to the field so that crop production is not hampered by water stress.
15. ……………… is required when precipitation is either not available or is insufficient to meet crop
water requirement.
16. the broad curriculum ………………. makes an ………………. a “ jack of all trades and almost a
master of all”
17. coren?
18. nse?
19. a practicing agricultural engineer must be registered by ……….
20. …………….. is the umbrella association for all engineering disciplines in nigeria.
21. ………....... is an equipment used to separate fluids of different densities.
22. …………… is an equipment used to measure and quantify the reluctance and transmittance
properties of a sample material.
23. ……………. is an equipment used for material sample analysis.
24. ……………. is an equipment/machine that supplies the tractive force, pull and push for diverse.
25. ……………. is an equipment used for laboratory investigation of the effect of tillage tool on
simulated soil conditions.
26. ……………. is an equipment used for crop protection.

answers

1. engineering
2. agriculture
3. agricultural engineering
4. 6
5. aquaculture engineering
6. processing and storage engineering
7. crop processing and food processing
8. crop processing
9. food processing
10. storage
11. structures and environment engineering
12. soil and water engineering
13. drainage
14. irrigation
15. irrigation
16. agricultural engineering ; agricultural engineer
17. the -council for the regulation of engineering in nigeria
18. nigerian society of engineers
19. coren
20. nigerian society of engineers
21. a centrifuge
22. a spectrometer
23. sieve shaker
24. merry ferguson 3070
25. soil bin track
26. boom sprayer 
